1. The protocol between sender and receiver as described above has (at
least) one weakness: it has a deadlock. Please explain the notion of a
deadlock in the context of networking protocols and describe the particular
deadlock situation in our case. A guiding question is: what can go wrong
and when in case certain packets are lost?

A: In networking, a deadlock is when two programs both are waiting for input from 
each other, and so neither can complete their respective actions.
In our instance, when the final ACK packet is dropped/lost, the "Sender" program cannot tell
that its last packet has been received, and so it keeps attempting to send 
packets, getting no acknowledgements since the receiver has already finished.

2. What is the magicno field good for?

MagicNo is used to make sure it is our program that sent the received
packet. Since we are using UDP, any packets sent to our port will be 
accepted regardless of the sender.

A: MagicNo can also serve sort of as a checksum value. If, during transmission,
the MagicNo field is changed, then we should drop the packet since we cannot
be sure. However, it is much more likely that the data is modified than
the MagicNo field, so it can't guarantee the data isn't modified.


3. Please explain what the select() function is doing and why it is useful
for the channel (and in another way for the sender).

A: select() is a blocking call that waits on one or more sockets until
they have data ready to be read. In other words it multiplexes sockets 
for synchronous IO. It is useful for the channel because
the channel has two incoming sockets, and we only want to wait until 
one of them has data. It is useful for the sender because it allows 
us to set a timeout to wait for an acknowledgement, whereas recvfrom()
would block forever.

4. Please explain how you have checked whether or not the file was
transferred correctly (i.e. the receivers copy is identical to the
transmitters copy).

A: We have used an md5 checksum on the input file and the output file. This 
gets run after transmission by our "test.py" program. if the md5 sum is the
same then it is almost ceratin that the files are the same.


5. We consider different packet loss probabilities of P = 0.0, 0.01, 0.05,
0.1, 0.2, 0.3, and a source file of length M = 512 * 100 = 51,200 bytes
(you need to create such a file). For each value of P make ten repetitions
of the file transfer and for each repetition record how many packets the
sender has sent in total. Draw a graph that shows the different values of P
on the x-axis and for each such value the average number of total packets
(the average being taken over the ten repetitions) on the y-axis. Explain
the results.
Note: To produce graphs, the tool gnuplot can be useful under Linux. Its main
advantage is that it allows for script-based (i.e. non-interactive)
creation of graphs, but admittedly its command syntax needs some getting
used to. However, you are free to use any tool you like (including Excel,
Matlab, etc.) for producing graphs. Under all circumstances you need to
make sure that axes and curves are properly labeled.

A:

6. Assume the following:
-- The probability to loose an individual packet (either a dataPacket or an
acknowledgementPacket) is P.
-- Packet loss events are statistically independent of each other.
-- The size of the file to be transmitted requires N packets.
Please derive and justify an expression for the average total number of
packets that need to be sent (including retransmissions) to transmit the
entire file. Compare this to the (average) total number of packets you have
observed in your experiments.

A: